POST TITLE: What are Washington Heights / Hamilton Heights / Manhattan Heights like to live in?

POST BODY: I have lived in Williamsburg and Crown Heights so far. Williamsburg just began to feel like an expensive mall and I couldn't afford it anymore. t I first loved about NYC. I was thinking of hat I first loved about NYC. I was thinking of trying to move to more upper Manhattan, it seems more affordable for someone on my kind of salary (not a huge one). I liked these other areas when I visited, but I would love people's takes on it all.   


My other option is probably something like... Bedstuy / the part of bushwick that's near it. Or, actually maybe queens which also seems nice and more affordable.

COMMENT: Good to know! Mind sharing the general area/cross streets?

COMMENT: Don’t live there, but I’ve spent some time exploring Hamilton Heights, and it’s got a great vibe. The mix of historic buildings and community energy makes it feel really unique. There’s a lot of good food around, and it’s super close to some peaceful green spaces like Riverside Park. Only thing I’ve noticed is that certain spots can get a bit lively at night, but it’s NYC, so that’s kind of expected. Definitely feels more affordable compared to downtown areas.

COMMENT: Northern NYC is absolutely unsafe and brooklyn is definitely 100% safer please avoid northern manhattan if you have the chance.

COMMENT: Been living in the Heights and it has been THE WORST! Every night someone is blasting music so loud you can hear their bass through multiple buildings away. The sidewalks are constantly covered in dog feces and trash with no one to pick it up. Maybe the worst part of Fort George/Heights are the cars. Every other morning you will wake up to someone honking for hours because someone double parked them in. I highly recommend looking for more affordable places in Brooklyn than this area.

COMMENT: I live in Washington Heights- have been on both sides of Broadway above 181st.

I don't know if you've seen In the Heights, but I feel like the best way to explain the difference between the two sides is that the old very Dominican Heights that is being idealized in the show/movie is what the east side is still like (with the exception that rent has soared) and the hipster organic cleaners elements the play gets annoyed about are what the west side is like, particularly Ft Washington/Cabrini. I personally like both, but I will say that you are way more likely to find peace and quiet west of Broadway. East of Broadway it can get LOUD.

COMMENT: Its block by block. You MUST check out your building on a weekend night, preferably in warm (above 65F) weather, in order to find out what the street culture is. I learned this the hard way. Our broker cleverly showed us our place in Inwood at 8AM Sunday morning, basically the only quiet time of the whole week. Im reality there was a permanent domino game under our window 6 months a year and a sport-bike gang used the steps of the building across the way as their Clubhouse, revving their engines all night.

COMMENT: Lived 20 years in Washington heights, went thru elementary school to grad school practically living there. Moving now to LI for residency, essentially Washington heights has changed A LOT since I lived there. It was a bit more dangerous back then, had to be really street smart when knowing what situation to avoid. Now it’s basically gentrifying with lots of new restaurant and bars opening up. Being near the A, C and 1 is nice too. But if I were to pick, I probably would live near hamilton height/city college. More things to do in terms of restaurant and bars and night life.

COMMENT: Im in Washington heights, but spend a lot of time in Williamsburg and the difference is dramatic. Williamsburg is much more clean and quiet (the streets), commute to midtown/downtown is easier, way more places to eat. I guess it depends on the block, but mine up here is very noisy, not just summer and not just nights. Lots of street sellers, dirty streets. I do think it’s safe though and you absolutely can’t beat the parks up here, so beautiful.

COMMENT: ROKC is hands down one of the best cocktail bars in the city, up there with a lot of the "famous" ones like D&C. The have their own sensibility and because it's not in a trendy neighborhood you don't do crazy lines (not that there's no wait on a friday night!). 

The bar right next door to ROKC, Perla Negra, has also turned into a fantastic cocktail bar on its own. Latin American inspired cocktails with good music and latin american food. If I can't get into ROKC, I'll go into Perla Negra and not even feel shortchanged.

COMMENT: I’ve lived in quiet Brooklyn already (Midwood). 

I’d live in bedstuy and thereabouts.  I like it there.  Doesn’t seem too crazy.  

But I’ve lived in the UWS now for nearly 30 years so my next stop is the old age home. Hopefully not too soon!

COMMENT: Not great, in my experience. Very noisy, smells of weed, dirty drugged people on my block, etc. That being said, my rent is cheap for Manhattan. I live on the east side of Washington Heights, but the area near Fort Tryon Park is a lot nicer and quieter. Feel free to ask further questions.

COMMENT: 'no off switch' - that's exactly why I want to move. Would you live in Brooklyn or do you also feel it's too intense?

COMMENT: Compared to Brooklyn, you'll miss the food and places to socialize in upper manhattan.  I live  near 100 st and bway and lived on 110 for a long time too.  Many friends live further north.  

There are neighborhood places that are good. But its nothing like the sheer density of  options that Brooklyn, Queens or the Village has.  There's very little food that will blow your mind - not that there aren't good places if you dig.  

There's very little in the way of live music up here compared to Brooklyn.  A few jazz clubs - Smoke is outstanding but expensive so it's more for an occasion.  No decent rock, blues, soul - although silvana seems to be a place lately and penny joes is OK.  No punk clubs anymore now that the amazing Ding Dong lounge is long gone.  

It's quiet and boring actually.  But I'm married and we cook a lot.  We can walk to great parks and have friends over.  But we usually go to the village, queens or brooklyn and find places that are more unusual or to meet up with friends.  But I couldn't live down there.  There's no off switch!

COMMENT: No problem! I will say though that up the hill from the East side of Broadway by St. Nicholas, it's not the worst neighborhood, but I would definitely say it's the hood. I'm personally don't feel uncomfortable over there, but I could see how someone might feel uncomfortable over there. There's a stark contrast between East of Broadway and West of Broadway. You see this all over Washington Heights and up into Inwood, even continuing into the Bronx with Kingsbridge Heights vs. Kingsbridge and Riverdale.

COMMENT: Low key. West side is pretty quiet. East side is a little more noisy. There's a good diversity around here, and many more bars and restaurants then there used to be.

COMMENT: I've been to ROKC, one of the most incredible drinks I ever had

COMMENT: Thank you so much for the insights!

COMMENT: >Aside from the subway frustrations, there’

So you find yourself still wanting to go to Brooklyn often?

COMMENT: I’m in Washington Heights on the CUIMC campus, and have been here for 3 years now. I moved here from Brooklyn and it was definitely a tough adjustment in terms of reevaluating my commuting radius. Making plans in Brooklyn or Queens can feel daunting even on a weekend depending on what the trains are doing. The ride from 59th to 125th can feel verrry long when the A is running local. Aside from the subway frustrations, there’s a lot to enjoy in the neighborhood! 181st and 187th have some nice stretches of bars and restaurants, and Ft Tryon park is gorgeous.

COMMENT: I lived 10 years in Hamilton heights up until 2022. Loved it. If I could move back I'd go right back there. Good mix of cost and restaurants/bars. Some really excellent cocktail bars too like ROKC.

COMMENT: I've been here for almost 15 years and I never want to leave.

COMMENT: Hamilton Heights is beautiful. Some of the prettiest blocks in all of Harlem

COMMENT: Quieter, cleaner, more expensive. Some apartments have river views, some apartments have city views. Next to the nicer part of Fort Tryon Park which overlooks the Hudson. Having Fort Tryon Park and Inwood Hill Park nearby is a huge perk of living that far uptown by the way. They're my two favorite parks in Manhattan.

COMMENT: Thank you so much, this is really really helpful.

COMMENT: what's Cabrini like?

COMMENT: I guess just a bit of a description or some impressions was what I was after

COMMENT: I moved in to Washington Heights about 7 months ago from a middle of nowhere town. It's pretty nice up here, particular if you're west of Broadway. Hudson Heights is beautiful and quiet, and close to amazing parks. It can get kind of noisy. St. Nicolas st in particular can get pretty crazy. If you live near one of the stations the 1 and the A are super convenient to get anywhere but the UES lol. Personally I live around 168th so having the C A and 1 is super convenient. There are a lot of Dominicans around, sometimes it'll seem like you're in the Dominican Republic lol, which to perfectly honest was kind of an adjustment to what I'm used to, and might seem kind of strange at first. But it's just something I had to get used to, and I find that most people are perfectly nice. You'll sometimes see trashy people (I just heard a teenager tell an old lady asking for money that he's gonna slap her, sometimes people throw glass bottles om the streets), but stuff like that is probably all over the city in varying degrees. Sometimes people do blast Dominican music, but if you have an apartment that's not facing the street, I haven't found it to be too much of an issue. Overall it's pretty nice up here in my opinion. Personally I think I would like it even better if I lived west of Broadway, it's got buildings that seem nicer, and seems quieter. It also helps that there are plenty of rent stabilized apartments up here.

COMMENT: Washington Heights is a very big neighborhood comprised of several sub-neighborhoods, so your experience will vary. I lived on 190th and Broadway for a bit. That block gets pretty crazy at night especially on the weekends so you've gotta be okay with noise. Up the hill on Cabrini Boulevard it's a completely different world.

COMMENT: I live in Hamilton, it’s a nice area certainly. I walk home at 4am quite often with no issues. It’s the city so certainly can be noisy at night, but I do think it is a beautiful area. Would recommend personally.

COMMENT: I don't think anyone can make any recommendations for you without knowing literally anything about you.

Astoria, Sunnyside, Woodside, Jackson Heights, Bushwick, Bed Stuy, Ridgewood, and Manhattan above 96th on the East Side, and 110th on the West Side are all popular picks for "less expensive" neighborhoods

COMMENT: don’t live there but i stay with my friend who lives there a lot (border of hamilton heights and washington heights) and i love it there. friend also has no complaints. definitely no shortage of good restaurants and bars, and some beautiful housing stock. love riverside park too