POST TITLE: Safety concerns living in a street-facing, 2nd floor apartment in East Village? (29F)

POST BODY: I found an apartment I like in East Village but it’s on the 2nd floor, facing the street. My concern is that someone could reach the fire escape and get into my apartment (sure, the windows lock, but how hard is a window to break?).

Is this unsafe or am I being dramatic? Paranoid? Has anyone had experiences with break-ins with a 2nd floor apartment? Thanks in advance for the sanity check.

COMMENT: I agree. Don't do this without getting window gates. A friend was raped when someone climbed up the fire escape and through her window.

COMMENT: It's THE East Village, not 'East Village'. Only those who are new here & saw that appellation on GrubHub & the like call it that. You will stand out like a sore thumb here if you erroneously call it that. You will never hear 'West Village' either.  Having lived here for 48 years, I state unequivocally that yes, a 2nd floor apartment facing the street will require window guards, or a guard dog in the window @ all times. Lock your door, have a 2nd (top) lock, & a security plate over your locks. I would also get a ring doorbell camera, if allowed in your building, or some kind of camera so you can see who is @ your door. People have been shot & killed here through apartment door peepholes. Don't put anything past anyone. People have lost their damn minds. Unless you are 350 lbs., 6'5", & proficient @ tae kwon do, I would not just open your door w/o knowing who it is, or that it is whom you are expecting. Those days are over. Retain a good amount of skepticism here. I'm a native female Manhattanite, so I am not just blowing smoke out of my ass. Please take me seriously.

COMMENT: That doesn't happen in today's day and age. Though you could request to have a window guard installed and the landlord has to do it according to the city law. Though it ruins the nostalgia, as was the case in my old apartment, but then again peace of mind is everything. However, as I would suggest always have self defence on you at all times you never know when you can save the day.

COMMENT: This doesn't really happen

COMMENT: Very dramatic. Millions of people here have fire escapes and they're fine. My place has two, both leading to bedrooms, but we keep the windows locked and it's fine.

COMMENT: It is healthy to think about safety but the scenario is pretty rare. Untargeted apartment burglaries are pretty rare, too, and 2nd floor walkup apartments do not signal mega-bucks to strangers.  (Targeted burglaries are when burglar A knows drug dealer B keeps his money in Grandma B's apartment...)   There are simple alarm products you can get that attach to doors and windows and react to shaking and movement, which might give you peace of mind.  Noise and vibration from the street are more likely to be disruptive until you get used to it.

COMMENT: Any sane persons only concern would be potential noise from being on a street facing apartment in the east village. No one is thinking about someone climbing up a fire escape 😂

COMMENT: This seems a little paranoid. Plus, climbing up a back facing fire escape might be easier since there wouldn’t be as many people to see. I’m sure it happens but many people live in similar set ups without a problem so I think the odds are with you

COMMENT: I think I would be more concerned about the noise levels/potential issues than a break-in tbh.

COMMENT: I've lived in an apartment with this same set up for ten years and that has never happened.

COMMENT: Assuming it’s at all modern, windows are a lot harder to break than you’d think. And impossible to brake discretely.

I’m in the process of buying a second floor apartment in West Village and have no qualms. Granted, I’m male, but unless you’re anticipating some kind of targeted attack, I don’t think that comes into it.

COMMENT: You’re being dramatic honey.