POST TITLE: Questions about living in Astoria

POST BODY: Moving to NYC and working in Midtown East, am considering Astoria due to rent and decent commute. I have a few questions.

A. How's the nightlife in Astoria for young 20s? And what area should I look at living in so it's not too quiet?

B. I have a lot of friends living in lower Manhattan, what's the commute like?

C. Any streets to avoid?

Thanks!!

COMMENT: I actually am in UES but I'm barely affording it I was thinking of relocating to Astoria when my lease is up. Why avoid it?

COMMENT: Avoid astoria please and thank you, go live in the 50s or ues

COMMENT: Hi, current Astoria resident who has commuted both to Midtown East and to FiDi.  
  
A. We have a lot of bars and restaurants. There is a few actual club spots/hookah lounge but I'm not really familiar with them. They're mostly on Steinway Street. In terms of people out and about, Ditmars, 30th Ave, and Broadway are very popular.

B. It is absolute fucking trash to go all the way downtown. > 1 hour depending on your distance to the subway. You're looking at 20 stops on the N/R/W or a perpetually delayed express 4/5 by transferring at 59th Street. It sucks the life out of me. Commuting to Midtown East however is nice and you have 2 options whether xfer to the 7 at Queensboro or take the 4/5 from 59th St.  

C. I don't recommend living directly on the blocks I named above, instead aim for stuff like midblock where you can get quiet living but be literally 2 minutes from the action. The spots on Steinway Street can get very rowdy, don't advise living right there. Otherwise everywhere is fine, the main thing is I advise limiting the distance to the subway at a 10 minute walk.  
  
There is a zone in central Astoria that gives you the option of both the N/W and the R/M trains, for a little bit extra flexibility. If you go by Ditmars for example you are stuck with only the N. Note that our weekend service is garbage too but *may* be improving this summer, but remember there is no W and no M (in Queens) on the weekend.

COMMENT: Commute to lower Manhattan can be loooong depending on where you live in Astoria. I live off of Ditmars about 10 minutes from the train and it takes me at least 50 minutes to get to work at Prince Street. I hear a lot of “15 minutes to midtown” in Astoria threads but that really only applies if you live very close to the Broadway or 36th Ave stop and happen to catch the train immediately after you get there.

COMMENT: You definitely have a good point. I guess living there I treated the triboro bridge as north of me and used the highway to divide one side versus the other. But you're right, North/South would be a better descriptor. Edited my comment

COMMENT: All your east/west distinctions are fucking me up lol I guess looking at a non-tilted map I see what you mean, but I would have said the neighborhood can be divided N/S of the GCP.

The M and R are in the east part of Astoria tho...you have me second guessing everything but I'm pretty sure about that one lol like Steinway street IS east of 31st

COMMENT: My frame will be from 7 years ago but I still have friends that live in the neighborhood. 

Astoria is great for young folks and does have a pretty robust nightlife on the weekends, slightly quieter during the week. I use the grand central/BQE as the dividing line. If you live on the North side of the highway (closer to Ditmars), tends to be more older multi-generational families, so a bit quieter at night, but a lot of great restaurants. On the South side is where all the younger folks (and immigrant families) live with Broadway and the other bigger roads having a ton of restaurants and cafes that tend to be bustling. Steinway is Little Egypt/Arabia, so you got all the hookah cafes and middle eastern restaurants/stores. 

Commute into the city isn't bad, the only thing that sucks is depending on where you are living you may only have one line to rely on. If you live further North, you pretty much depend on the N and W which run on the same elevated track. So during really bad snowstorms or any other random delays, you might not have access to the city via train. If you live on the South side, the M and R are additional options which makes commuting a bit better. You're looking at a bit over 35 minutes to get to lower Manhattan if the trains aren't running with delays. 

I honestly loved living in that neighborhood and I only moved because I was looking to buy a place in the cheaper parts of Queens.

COMMENT: I moved to Astoria right out of university, and have been there for over 25 years.

30th Avenue and Broadway areas are going to have more in terms of nightlife compared to Ditmars (I live near Ditmars so sourcing myself here).

Your best bet is to go and walk around and get a feel for the area.  It's a true community compared to other parts of the city, and you might just find yourself thinking you are going to live there for a year or two and instead building a life for you there (which is what happened in my case).

Good luck!

COMMENT: r/queens and r/astoria might help too.

COMMENT: A. There's a lot of bars and restaurants, lounges, and hookah spots. I live in the quieter part so I'm not too helpful here, but I think the Ditmars area might be more popping. Honestly, though, some bars and dancey type places can play loud music very late and people over in r/astoria do complain. I live in a quieter area but only a 5 minute walk from the more active areas and I really enjoy it. 

B. Lower Manhattan depends on where you're talking about. I commute to FiDi and it's about 40-45 minutes. I'm sure LES would be like 10, maybe 15 mins less. All depends on which trains you're near and your friends are near. 

C. No answer for this, but I know there's a building everyone in r/astoria complains about. I'll try to find the name and post it here as an update. UPDATE: it's the Acropolis. Constant rat infestations. 


Also, I use to work in midtown and the 15 minute commute was absolutely amazing. You won't regret your work commute.