POST TITLE: Is there anywhere I should avoid living in the East Village?

COMMENT: 14th is ass dispute  the food and sweet shops all other the place

COMMENT: I wouldn’t say “definitely”. But just know you’re very far from any sort of transportation.

COMMENT: You would definitely stay away from E 6th and Ave D?

What do you think of E 14th and 1 st Ave?

COMMENT: Interesting. I’m surprised 14th st hasn’t come up tbh.

COMMENT: This would be october of 2023. It was one of the reasons I considered the building, they were on the upper end of what I wanted to pay.

COMMENT: Yeah, I actually am a fan of that building and the apartments, but it's far. They never mentioned a shuttle bus, so good to know!

COMMENT: Yeah that's one of the big reasons they are slightly cheaper. I did look at some of their apartments. They are decent, but I found something cheaper.

COMMENT: I live in LES and use to live near Gramercy so I know both sides well. I looked a lot in EV, but couldn't find something I liked exactly in my budget.

COMMENT: Oh, interesting, that's actually super helpfful and it's not in that bad of a spot to begin with

COMMENT: Assault, Battery, Coma, Death. That’s how it used to be but Ave D is still a nah. Not much there and the shootings still happen. It’s an escape route onto the FDR. More so it’s just too far east.

COMMENT: Not Ave D if you can avoid it. It’s not unsafe but it’s really out of the way. There’s one sketchy block on like 2nd street but even that’s not an issue. It’s just got some sketchy people who hang out there.

COMMENT: The more West you are, the closer you will be to the trains, but going further East can definitely mean getting better deals. There's pretty much nothing to do on D and it can feel a little dicey in some spots, but it's not unsafe. I hang out a lot on Ave C, and I think in a few years, it's going to be filled with bars and restaurants. A and B have a ton of stuff already. Nowhere is really "bad" or should be avoided

COMMENT: >Its bad enough that one of those luxury apartments on ave D advertises that they have a shuttle to the 6 train during commuting hours.

Haha, which?

COMMENT: You hit the nail on the head. I live in EV and this is the best response here

COMMENT: avoid? Not really. But EV has three points that are good for subway access. 1st and 14th (L), 1stand Houston/2nd Ave (F), Astor place (3rd and 9th street) and 4th&14th  for union square.  Remember that walking down street from one avenue  to another takes longer than walking an avenue from street

This basically means that subway gets worse as you go into alphabet city. So avenue B/C/D have much worse subway access. If your on avenue  C or D, you can easily be a 15 minute walk.

Also almost all the night life is on avenue A/B/1st/2nd. A little bit is on C. So if your dream is to walk outside and be in night life, probably wouldn't want to be in avenue D. A lot of avenue D is NYCHA housing.

COMMENT: Anything past Avenue B. Avoid 14th st. Ideal location would be west of Avenue A south of 12th st north of 2nd ave and east of 4th ave/lafayette

COMMENT: That entirely depends on what you're looking for.

COMMENT: Anywhere is fine. I lived on Ave D for years. Just don’t bother people

COMMENT: Used to be "Ave A you're adventurous, B you're bold, C you're crazy, D you're dead."

Not anymore, but still wouldn't live on D fwiw.