POST TITLE: Help me decide between these three neighborhoods: Crown Heights, Ridgewood, Bed Stuy

POST BODY: Looking to move to one of these neighborhoods and want to get the perspective from local NYers

Some of the stuff I’m looking for is proximity to activities like parks, restaurants, gyms and bars. Also looking for somewhere safe as I often get out of work late and would have to walk home from the subway. My offices are in Midtown & West Village so near train lines would be ideal. Lastly, most of my friends live in Williamsburg so looking for easy access via train/uber

2Bd Apt Budget: $3.4K

COMMENT: hello j and c train enjoyer

COMMENT: Why not look in all 3?

COMMENT: You should consider Bushwick it’s right next to Williamsburg which is next to Ridgewood. There is the MH park and plenty of bars and restaurants in the area.

COMMENT: For me it’s Bed Stuy > Crown Heights > Ridgewood. 

Bed Stuy and crown heights are both gigantic neighborhoods and vibe can vary greatly depending where precisely you are.

COMMENT: There are bike lanes but there are usually cars double parked in them. 

Once you get up to South Williamsburg Kent Ave bike lane is pretty good, but you'd have to take Bedford Ave to get there which has some less-nice parts. It's doable but not my favorite bike route.

COMMENT: Look at places in all three neighborhoods and decide based on specific apartments, not on neighborhoods as a whole

COMMENT: To the city is fantastic. to parts of Brooklyn is inconvenient because you need to go to Atlantic and switch and it can be the opposite direction for some places

COMMENT: Tbh just look at google maps and a map of the subway system, that’ll give you the best sense of what’s connected to what. They’re adjacent neighborhoods so no major difference in terms of proximity. 

As for other parts of Brooklyn, the G is the only train line that really goes within the borough, so maybe look at places close to G stops.

COMMENT: Are there any designated bike paths from CH to Williamsburg? Or would you just bike thru residential streets?

COMMENT: I live in crown heights, can’t speak to ridgewood but in my experience crown heights is much cleaner and a bit more relaxed than bed stuy is. Closer to the park too. But I do think bed stuy is a bit quicker of a commute to Manhattan

COMMENT: I greatly prefer Crown Heights to Ridgewood--more restaurants & bars, close to Prospect Park for running/biking/picnics, near Downtown Brooklyn for shopping, Target, Trader Joe's, etc., multiple train lines (either 2/3/4/5 or A/C)--BUT it is definitely not easy to get to Williamsburg from Crown Heights. If you want to take the train, you have to go through Manhattan. You can take a bus, but they're often delayed/in traffic, or you can take an uber/bike.

COMMENT: Im definitely leaning towards CH and Bed Stuy but still can’t make up my mind. How are they in terms of commuting into the city and other parts of Brooklyn?

COMMENT: I’d probably rule out Ridgewood since it’s not great in terms of parks or access to Williamsburg. 

Bed-Stuy and Crown Heights are both great options. CH has the advantage of potentially being closer to Prospect Park, depending what part of the neighborhood you’re looking at.

COMMENT: I live in BedStuyby the C and J trains...lots of stores around, restaurants. Love it here!