POST TITLE: How safe is Washington Heights from around 161st street to hospital?

POST BODY: Hi all! My gf (22F) and I (24M) are moving to an apartment west of fort washing ave on 161st street. She's going to school at Columbia so we picked an apartment close to the campus. I felt generally safe when touring  a few months ago in May but today when I visited again I encountered a strange man on the street who kept staring at me, while moving in a zombie-like manner (irregular body movement and arms seem to be independent of his body). He didn't do anything to me and was harmless, but I am a little concerned for my girlfriend. Is this common in the heights?

COMMENT: For me it felt pretty safe in the day. Honestly for me it’s not too different from when I was living in midtown. My GF says she feels safe in the day but once night is here and there’s few people on the street she doesn’t feel as safe, but not bad. One thing about living south of Central Park is there are always some people around you. Sometimes she has to stay on campus until late so she’d call one of them shuttles. With that said, we still plan to live here at least for another 2 years, or maybe even all 4 years.

COMMENT: I have found an apartment around that block. It’s been 100 days since you posted- how are feeling about the neighborhood?

COMMENT: When wintertime rolls around, people are (obviously) less likely to be hanging around outside. With the mild winters we've been having, that might not be until November.

COMMENT: When does it generally quiet down?

COMMENT: Thanks everyone for the info🫡🫡🫡! Definitely feel much better now about moving-in in a few days. We were expecting Washington heights to be more like a suburb where we grew up but it is still part of the city.

COMMENT: Area fine but have ton of dog shiet everwhere

COMMENT: Have you been to a city before?

COMMENT: I lived on 171 and Fort Washington in 2005 and found it to be safe then, sure it's even nicer now

COMMENT: *in the voice of Shao Khan from Mortal Kombat*
You Will Die!

COMMENT: It's perfectly fine. Lots of diversity in age, race and culture.

COMMENT: There also seems to be less of those people in the heights than the rest of the island. Harlem, Midtown and downtown have more strangeness to it than the heights. Unless you have a fear of Dominicans.

COMMENT: The topography, gorgeous views, and Fort Tryon Park is as glamorous as it comes, what are you on my dude?

COMMENT: I've lived on the next block over for well over a decade. It can be loud during the summertime, but I've never felt unsafe (and more importantly neither has my wife).

COMMENT: Some people in this jaded “i’m a real new yorker” sub will give you a hard time for ever being concerned with safety. 

That said, you can encounter people like the man you described all over NYC. I live in what is considered by many to be one of the “nicest” family friendly neighborhoods in Manhattan but there are mentally ill, homeless and drug addicted people here and there and occasionally you see them act out in seemingly threatening or bizarre ways. Usually it’s not a big deal. 

They are in other parts of the city and the subway system as well. It can be disturbing to see but the main tactic is to move away/avoid as best you can and do not engage. You didn’t see anything you couldn’t see in a lot of the city, even areas generally perceived as safer.

COMMENT: I live a couple blocks away with my wife and 17 month old son, and feel totally safe. You'll see some homeless people and junkies but I've never had anything weird in the 5+ years I've been up here. I'd be more careful about people speeding or blowing lights.

COMMENT: You’ll get used to a lot of strangeness in NYC. Washington Heights is unglamorous, but safe.

COMMENT: i was murdered five times in that area last year

COMMENT: Your area gets a little loud in the summer, but you'll be fine.

COMMENT: I've lived in this area for 25 years. It's really quite safe.