POST TITLE: Adice: Should I Live in Astoria?

POST BODY: Hi Y'all,  
I am a rising senior in college planning to live in NYC during the summer for a fellowship. I have an awesome offer to live in Astoria (right in Ditmars, next the N/W stop). I love Astoria, however, my biggest concern is the ease of getting around the city from there. I would love to have a fun time in the city — exploring the city, food, nightlife and such — and I am wondering if living in Astoria would hinder this.  


Quick facts:

* 40 mins from lower east side
* 30 mins from the MET
* 30 mins from UN headquarters

COMMENT: Thank you for posting this!! Because I am considering moving there as well! It really sounds like an incredible borough! Everyone’s answers are so helpful ♥️

COMMENT: It's a good starter neighborhood close to alot of stuff, with great bars and food

COMMENT: It’s convenient to Midtown and above, but a bit of a trek downtown and to Brooklyn, especially via public transit. Astoria has a small amount of nightlife for the early-20s crowd, but a lot of it is going to be downtown and in Brooklyn. On the other hand, Queens has what I would argue is the best food in the entire city.

As far as affordability, it really can’t be beat, as you’d have to live way uptown or pretty far out in Brooklyn to get similar prices. If it’s just something short and you could afford it, I would probably try to live downtown, but it isn’t worth killing yourself financially over. Also, if you feel safe riding in the city, consider bicycling at times or to places where pubic transit isn’t great. Getting from Bushwick to Astoria at 2AM on a Sunday morning could be a 25 minute ride or a 2+ hour subway ride.

COMMENT: To a lesser degree, but yes— it was a few years ago, but I think it was like five stops to get to Manhattan so I found I didn’t go into the city unless I really needed to. A cab to get home if you need it is really expensive.

Also, I’m surprised that Astoria is so beloved, because I thought there was a surprising amount of litter on the street.

COMMENT: Thank you for your response! This is what I am worried about, I don't want to feel isolated! Did you feel that way during the summer?

COMMENT: Fun fact you are closer to something’s in manhattan than I am in a hipster neighborhood in Brooklyn. Relax those are normal travel times in this giant city, you’ll still have a blast.  Also some would say queens has a bettter food/city scene than manhattan anyway.

COMMENT: This is SO real. Thank you for the text. These were the questions I couldn't really ask the person I am taking over the sublease for.

COMMENT: Thank you so much for the response. Yes! I totally hear you, I know that the real NYC experience isn't just confined to Manhattan. I think I am mostly cool with living in the boroughs, however, I definitely want to be closer to all the action to where young people will be largely. thanks for the insight

COMMENT: Thank you for the response! I honestly do plan on going out (not crazy much but enough to want to be close to it). I don't really have other options other than to keep looking honestly which I am happy to but didn't know if I was a fool to look else where. I love how diverse Queens is and how amazing the foodie scene is but man oh man do I not like the idea of being an hour away from LES. Thank you so much

COMMENT: What are your other options? Astoria is great. It’s also a huge pain in the ass to get to Brooklyn or the LES. It’s closer to an hour to the LES from Ditmars. Do you go out a lot? Do you plan to go to bars in Bushwick and the LES? Can you afford 50+ in Uber or deal with a 90 minute subway ride back at 2 am? Astoria is not convenient to either of those places. But, the food is great and it’s a lovely neighborhood. I wouldn’t want to live anywhere else, but it was an adjustment moving here at 23.

COMMENT: Astoria is lovely. The N/W is really convenient to get into Manhattan, the only downside is occasionally you’ll have issues on the weekends with the trains being really infrequent, not running, skipping stops, etc. but I haven’t lived there in a few years so not sure if that’s still the case. I enjoyed living near the end of the line because I always had a seat on the subway.

COMMENT: The commute TO the city is fine. It's the ride home at 2am when trains only run every 20min where you debate getting that Uber or not...

COMMENT: I live in Astoria (although by the M/R and not N/W) and go to Manhattan all the time. Pretty much all my friends who live in Astoria work in Manhattan. A 30 minute commute is nothing!

COMMENT: I found living in Astoria to be extremely isolating when I lived there, especially in the winter when you have to stand on the elevated train platforms in freezing temperatures; you really think twice about whether it's worth it to go into the city.

COMMENT: Well first of all, if you want to have fun in the city, I doubt you will be spending much time at or anywhere around the UN. Where is the fellowship ? 

Astoria is a very popular outer borough neighborhood, there are a lot of young people there. They have GREAT ethnic food. There is a good chance you will find a lot of fun exploring nearby. Manhattan is nearby and honestly probably most New Yorkers live in the residential neighborhoods and just take the subway to Manhattan for work or nights out, it’s not like “real” New Yorkers all live in Manhattan near the tourist destinations

COMMENT: Ha, quick facts. 

Astoria will suit you just fine, it's generally very convenient for a new resident.

If you have unlimited funds I guess you could more minutely tailor your choice.