POST TITLE: Why is Astoria so cheap?

POST BODY: Compared to most of Brooklyn, Hoboken, and Jersey City Astoria is way more affordable with easy access to the city. What’s the catch?

COMMENT: 21st street, Astoria, and the whole area immediately south of Astoria park on the waterfront.

COMMENT: quick Q what’s wrong with your wife

COMMENT: cos you constantly have FOMO living here.. lol..

COMMENT: I get to midtown in like 20 minutes...

COMMENT: Not a lot of greenspace, train service is not great on the weekends and walking from the street to the platform is an actual workout lol

Demand is lower there, so the prices are, too

COMMENT: Astoria has one of the largest concentrations of rent regulated housing in the city.

COMMENT: He found street parking?

COMMENT: Cheap? Houses are like 1.3M+

COMMENT: i love living in astoria— it’s nyc hidden secret to those who don’t know nyc well. 

it’s family oriented, old buildings, amazing restaurants and bars, beautiful park on the water, quiet compared to other neighborhoods… people here have been here for generations, so you’re less likely to find college students/transplants in their 20s, etc. 

also, i have a one bedroom in a rent stabilized apartment (again, old buildings), and it’s HUGE and renovated, for a great price.

COMMENT: Good, fair, and balanced comment.

I am in Manhattan, but if I could not afford Manhattan, I would be in Astoria.

COMMENT: You can find lots of apartments in Jersey City that are similarly priced or cheaper, especially if they're not that close to PATH. There are a few in Hoboken too. And of course in Brooklyn, Brooklyn is vast. If you look outside downtown Brooklyn, apartments are not expensive.

Astoria's prices are what I expect. The local trains (N, W, M, R) are not the most ideal. The 7, E and F trains are better. But because it is more trendy and popular, Astoria is a more expensive than areas further east. What's more of a surprise to me is why Maspeth, Ditmars and East Elmhurst aren't cheaper despite being so far away from the subway.

COMMENT: It’s literally one of the closest neighborhoods to midtown. I live downtown now, but my commute to midtown was exactly the same distance when I lived in Astoria. Downtown Manhattan and BK are a bit of a hike, but north BK isn’t bad if you’re not relying on the subway.

COMMENT: I think you're confusing LIC with Astoria.

COMMENT: A good 75% of Astoria doesn’t have buildings above 7 stories thanks to zoning laws. There’s a ton of new buildings going up near the river and 21st street but those are the closest thing we have to towers and none of them compare to LIC. Almost all new construction  in the rest neighborhood is smaller and wider, 3-7 story buildings.

COMMENT: This! Such a cute neighborhood but as someone who works downtown and mostly socializes in Brooklyn, the subway situation is a complete nonstarter.

COMMENT: Far to midtown, even farther to downtown.
Not trendy.
Train seems to be constantly down

COMMENT: smaller older buildings? 

lol must have missed all the high rise condos and apartments everywhere

COMMENT: I feel like a lot of them live in elmhurst/jackson heights too

COMMENT: There are two types of Astorians. 

Those who think it's the best hidden gem in all of NYC and want to keep it that way, and those who are deeply offended that rest of the city is not recognizing just how amazing Astoria is. 

My wife jokingly said she would divorce my ass if we ever considered moving to Astoria. If Astoria was a movie, it would be one of those highly contentious movies, like "Barbie".

COMMENT: Brooklyn - because it's not called Brooklyn

Jersey City - Downtown JC is more modern highrises,  closer to lower manhattan, and has some industry of its own. The rest of the city is comparable to or cheaper than Astoria. 

Hoboken - No idea.

COMMENT: Yea the N is a hot mess these days

COMMENT: Do a lot of flight attendants still live in Astoria? That where many of them lived in the mid 90's.

COMMENT: Not cheaper than Hoboken? Really? 1 bedrooms start in the 2800 range and skyrocket from there.

COMMENT: A lot of walkup non renovated apts

COMMENT: Astoria isn’t as “hip” as the expensive areas of Brooklyn. Like for like with apartments, I don’t think that it’s overall cheaper than Hoboken or JC, but the housing stock is older in Astoria with fewer luxury buildings, so that means there are more affordable options.

COMMENT: Mainly smaller older buildings, lots of walkups, plenty of areas where not having a car can leave you in a bit of a transit desert or a decent walk to a subway stop. It's also not great to only have just one line you can rely on unless you're closer to Queens Blvd and don't mind walking.  Headways on the subway on the weekend or offpeak can also be pretty bad, and if anything is going wrong with the N you're fucked.

COMMENT: This is just completely incorrect lol, you can get a 1BR for less than $2500 next to a subway stop. Good luck finding that basically anywhere in Manhattan that isn't a fake 1BR or a garden apartment.

COMMENT: Absolutely not, I’m seeing many listings of one bedroom apartments going for 2200 to 2400. Way cheaper than Manhattan.

COMMENT: that is no longer true. astoria’s rents are almost on par with manhattan now. it’s become a very in-demand neighborhood because of this mindset and now the rents are driven up with no sign of going down.