POST TITLE: How is the LES these days?

POST BODY: i have an opportunity to move back but it was getting pretty heavy with the crime and homeless when i left in 2021 - how is it feeling lately?

COMMENT: oh really? did something happen to cause a dramatic change that year?

COMMENT: its disingenuous too because he knows exactly what i mean, anyone who lived around there before during and after the pandemic saw things change and felt the energy shift

COMMENT: you're the only one trying to make this a political statement, im simply asking a question to people who also live in the neighborhood and watched how it changed during and after the pandemic, its really not that deep

COMMENT: 1 year did make a big difference from 2019-2020, if you lived in the neighborhood you would know

COMMENT: Had someone break into my place in 2020. Just went there Saturday and it was stuffed with college kids. I mean actually groups sitting next to us talking about college. Just feels lame and it’s ever dirtier than years back

COMMENT: The LES is kind of a unique situation.  The Jewish population was decimated during the Holocaust and then the Soviet Union shut its borders. As crime rose in those neighborhoods and the mob took over, no one gave a shit about those people and the Jews began leaving or being forced out. Same thing with the Chinese. It wasn't until the Taiwanese were allowed to come in the 80s that the Chinatowns began to recover.

 How many Jewish people are left in the LES? Do you think all those people left willingly? 

I have zero sympathy for the artists, Foucault told us we were gentrifiers in 1968.

COMMENT: As a Sidenote, nobody is annoyed that the neighborhood got safer, we’re annoyed that nobody gave a shit until rich people moved in. To hear people in the LES as it is now complain about the safety level seems almost sadistic to someone like me who grew up watching artists and old Puerto Rican families get strong armed out of the area. Like how much do they need?

COMMENT: Joke all you want but in the peak of covid, parts of the LES were looking a little scary. I walked up and down those blocks and the crazy mental homeless addicts were the only ones roaming the streets.   


It only lasted a couple of months so I can see how you would forget but it was sketchy. Lots of people moved out of the neighborhood then... people who had lived there for 15-20 years.

COMMENT: Sure, but it was not a terribly helpful comment either. Been here over 20 years and LES was always Disneyland for drunks, with the former LES edginess used as a marketing tool. It's like asking help with your wifi and getting a rant about dialup modems. Like, ok?

COMMENT: "it's better than when it was one of the worst hoods in the city"

wow, no shit huh?

COMMENT: The 80’s called saying hold my beer.

COMMENT: and thinking 1 year would make a difference

COMMENT: Expensive. That’s how it is.

COMMENT: He’s not a gangster. Prob seen it back in the day which it is a night and day difference. You might just be a Reddit punk ass haha

COMMENT: Being aware of the city you live in isn’t “gangsta” it’s just normal. What a strange response. If you think right now is rough it just means you’ve probably been in nyc for a short time or you’re under 20. It’s fine but you do sound mad ridiculous. You have no idea how much heroin was going through the LES in the 90s if you think you see a lot of people on the nod now.

COMMENT: yeah people were going up fire escapes breaking into apartments and tons of people slumped out everywhere - but damn i forgot im talking to a REAL REDDIT GANGSTA you're hard bro i get it

COMMENT: Hahahaha I literally can’t imagine someone thinking that right now is an example of the LES being “heavy with crime and homelessness”. Y’all have no idea how silly you sound😂😂😂

COMMENT: It's about the same with asprinkling of gentrification with the newer condos being built in the area