POST TITLE: is Ridgewood a good option for college student?

POST BODY: hey, good evening.

i'm moving to New York for college in less than 6 months and i'm just looking for a place to live  because the dorms for my college are absurdly expensive and would push me into lots of debt.

so, i was thinking of areas that have a reasonable commute to my school (is in Brooklyn Heights) and are on the not as expensive side. this has brought me to begin windows shopping for rentals in Ridgewood. 

now, i do have some knowledge of what it's like to be there, i'm 17 and i've visited NY by myself like 8 times over the course of 4 years, so i certainly know how to get around. and also, i always make sure to visit this deli outside of Fresh Pond Road station so the neighborhood has a special place in my heart.

anyways, my main concern (besides looking for places to have fun) is finding somewhere to work especially since i'm 17. i have no choice but to secure employment because... rent exists, so if i can't find a job that's a reasonable distance away w/out interfering w/ my school work, Ridgewood may unfortunately be off the table.

so if anyone could help me figure out what i should be looking for in a neighborhood when i'm going to college, or even any choices; please do let me know!

thank you!

COMMENT: I rented a room for 800/mo in Ridgewood for years. It was a 3br that was the entire 2nd floor of one of the old rowhouses between the Forest Ave and Fresh Pond stops. We were 2300/mo total and I had the biggest room so I paid the most. The neighborhood is great and super safe. Idk how ideal it is given your situation, but the neighborhood is fine. Quiet, the people are friendly, not a food desert.

COMMENT: You're probably thinking of North Ridgewood where there's a big residential population, off fresh pond road.

Many people when they think of Ridgewood immediately think of Myrtle/wycoff which was at one point quite sketchy. The movie theater (now closed) was famous for a gruesome murder.

The general area has gotten much nicer, modern residential buildings and cafes.

COMMENT: Might be best to go south if your school is located on the R train line -- Gowanus, Sunset Park, etc.  If not, select a subway line near your school, pick a few stations that are 30 mins out and search those areas.

COMMENT: done. i have Roomi, SpareRoomUSA, Badi, and Craigslist. i'm all set :)

COMMENT: All over, download the app and roomi app as well and do some research.

COMMENT: Yeah? My memory of it was, coming from a friends long ago, happening to find a yellow cab, and the cab driver tell me I didn't look like I should be in that neighborhood, and I should be careful. Maybe it was just the block, but I always associated that statement with the neighborhood, as a whole, after that

COMMENT: i'm looking to not go over 950/month. what neighborhoods in Brooklyn btw?

COMMENT: I think weird may be the wrong word. Perhaps novel. I'm not from NY. I'm from a pretty homogeneous area so going somewhere where there were 8 languages spoken in a single block was something I didn't expect.

I speak some Russian however it was surprising.

COMMENT: >There's some places where they just assume you speak X

Why is that weird? As an asian person if i walk into a restaurant in Flushing they might assume I speak mandarin or korean.

COMMENT: The stations are farther apart over there and I could never figure out the streets. I moved to Manhattan and I never get lost now. Make sure you cant hear the road from your room. Woke me up every damn night

COMMENT: yeah my choice location was the Hispanic part closest to Bushwick so i wouldn't be too far

COMMENT: It was weird for me. The neighborhood is predominantly immigrants. Mostly Russian, Polish and Albanian. There's one section that's Hispanic. Bushwick is adjacent to it and that's mostly hipsters. If you walk through there most of the shops are Polish. 

I enjoyed it but my roommates were nuts.

There's some places where they just assume you speak X. I went to store my stuff and they assumed I spoke Spanish.

COMMENT: what neighborhoods would you recommend?

COMMENT: You can definitely find affordable living in Ridgewood, but it's not going to be particularly convenient to get to Brooklyn Heights - easily a 45 minute subway commute with transfers. If that's not a problem for you, go for it. And in that case, you shouldn't mind finding a job in another neighborhood cuz its unlikely you'll find one in Ridgewood where (for the most part) the only businesses are bodegas and a smattering of restaurants and bars.

COMMENT: Its was a sleepy middle class area with germans and slovaks for 70 years.

COMMENT: You are going to have a very hard time finding a person that will rent to you before you turn 18.

COMMENT: It was sketchy as fuck, not so long ago

COMMENT: Ridgewood queens is on the way up??? What was it down to?

COMMENT: I lived in Ridgewood. It's a little weird but it's relatively cheap.

COMMENT: What's your budget?


You can find rooms to rent on the Spareroom app in BK for $700+ per month.

COMMENT: gonna be hard to find a job until 18, maybe you can find work study at school

COMMENT: Ridgewood queens? Reasonable. Not ideal, but reasonable. It's on the way up.

Ridgewood NJ -- no. Fuck no.