POST TITLE: Living in LES

POST BODY: We’re looking to sign a lease on Stanton street in between Ludlow and Essex. Anyone have advice regarding the noise level / safety wise. Hoping it won’t be as loud since it’s between the busy streets and on not it but not sure.

COMMENT: i live on Ludlow and Stanton and the noise levels are pretty bad. Especially because some of the neighbors in my building are inconsiderate assh\*les coming home at 3am on a weekday and screaming in the hallways. Always have randos sitting on the steps of our building entrance. I have to get mail delivered elsewhere because i had 10 packages stolen from the building. it's a shame because the apartment is decent but i never feel settled.

did you end up moving here in the end?

COMMENT: I'm a few blocks away, but not facing the street. I'm fine. Some slight shenanigans but it's whatever. It's a city.

COMMENT: You need to cross Essex street to get out of the noise zone. Stanton street between ludlow and essex is right around the corner from a bunch of clubs, including Pianos. That block also has a popular dive bar called Welcome to the Johnsons.  

Safety wise, its generally safe. LES tends to be dead these days Sunday through Wednesday. I definitely wouldn't consider anything street facing to quiet. 

I live two blocks from there and walk that block to go home every day.

If your apartment is high enough noise often isn't an issue. Like I live on top of a bar and I don't hear anything other than sometimes girls screaming when the bars close (my air conditioner drowns them out). You need to really guage the unit itself, rather than the location.

A back facing apartment on 3rd or 4th floor walkup may not hear any noise even if its on a noisier block

COMMENT: it's the worst street you could have picked regarding noise.

COMMENT: Those blocks are referred to as "Hell Square" because its a total zoo on weekends.  

We're talking Pianos, Hair of the Dog, etc.

Fun place to live if you don't need sleep.

COMMENT: One of the draws about living in that area is that you go out in that area, just saying. If you live there and are always gone, why not just move somewhere else?

COMMENT: We’re pretty much out on weekends in other neighborhoods so just hoping that it’s quiet during the week

COMMENT: You're pretty much moving to LES party zone ground zero. 

Maybe a bit loud with partiers at times. Plenty safe, aside from drunk B&T riff raff brawling at 3 am.

I recommend spending some time there on a Saturday night to gauge the vibe.