POST TITLE: how i found my nyc apartment in may 2026 post-FARE act

POST BODY: I did it, i finally found an apartment. lease is signed and we're moving in a few weeks. I've moved 3 times in NYC prior to this and it has never been as bad. if you're looking, here's a list of things i did and their various effects on my apartment search/level of effectiveness:

ACTUAL SEARCH: 

1. streeteasy - i have the app but i was using it in conjunction with rent reboot. see step 3. sort by new, not by default. also, when i saw a posting i liked, i would email AND text the broker unless the post specifically said they preferred one or the other. some brokers only answer one method. you can find their # under their name.

2. zillow - same as above, i had the app but to use with rent reboot. 

3. rent reboot - rent reboot is a service that basically aggregates all apartment listings and sends you alerts according to your preferences. if you have the means, sign up for the $29 subscription that texts or emails you as soon as an apartment is posted. for some apartments i saw, i was one of the first people to contact the broker. the text they send has a link straight to the streeteasy or zillow posting. 

4. looking at the city's list of stabilized buildings - i did this because i wanted a stabilized unit. i went through buildings in each neighborhood that i liked to see if they were stabilized or not and then checked the building's violations, and if the building looked good, i contacted the broker that previously posted the units. this got me in contact with some helpful brokers. 

5. word of mouth - i posted on IG a bunch just asking people if they knew of anything opening up. i got a few leads this way and names of brokers who sent us some stuff we liked. this seems like one of the most effective routes tbh.

6. facebook - i kept seeing this recommended but it seemed to me even more spammy than craigslist and difficult to sort the posts by date posted. 

7. leasebreak - i didn't find this to be too helpful.

8. local broker company websites - nooklyn, compass, concrete jungle etc. these were not so helpful because they mostly focused on new builds which i personally was trying to avoid (preference) but they can be good if you get in contact with a specific broker because they can sometimes show you the unit before the streeteasy showing and give you an edge. 

9. brokers - we actually had a broker working for us and she gave us insights on one application we had. was helpful because we knew we were getting outbidded in that situation which sucked but at least we knew not to get our hopes up, lol. one broker did give us the tea on the apartments, but she didn't seem to have an edge on the market because she was sending me shit i already saw on rentreboot. a different broker we had showed us something off market, but that situation fell through at the last minute. 

10. lastly, craigslist - where we actually found our apartment. there's so much spam but there really is good stuff on there if you're patient and street smart with what is spam and not. but we found a gem of an apartment through all the digging on craigslist and we're renting from a local dude so that is cool and a first time for me. 

DO YOUR HW:

1. https://whoownswhat.justfix.org --> tells you who owns the building and how many violations they have across their building portfolio aka if they're a shitty landlord. 

2. https://www.nyc.gov/site/hpd/about/hpd-online.page --> tells you what the violations are, what the 311 complaints have been for the last 3 years and when the violations happened. so helpful. if you see buildings with a ton of violations from like the last year and it's all spread out across different units, run unless you are really desperate. 

3. ask people outside the building if they like it. we did this at one building that was seemingly normal and the residents were giving us tea.

LAST ADVICE: i cannot say this enough but start early. people always say start a month out but the market is changing. we didn't have to be out of our place until june 1, and were able to find an apartment for may 15 move in. however, if we had to find may 1, there was a chance we were going to be screwed. also, i stopped looking on april 27, but i started seeing june 1 posts come up about a week before i stopped. 

happy to answer any questions if people need advice. it's so rough out there.

COMMENT: 100% this. I've been subscribing to the list for 15 years now and I'm glad the folks who run it made it into a viable business but OOOF the prices these days are wild. And it's not just NYC - I keep my eye on it for some other cities I'm curious about and it makes everywhere (but Philly) seem unaffordable. 

But if you want an airbnb or house swap situation, it does have value

COMMENT: Thanks for this I'm relocating to NY. And it's been a task searching for a place to live. I'm looking in Bed-sty , Prospect Park, and downtown Brooklyn, budget 4k.

COMMENT: His name is Edwin Ega and I personally found him to be super reliable and had amazing local knowledge and connections. I haven’t had any contact with him since then but assume he’s still good

COMMENT: do you recommend that broker? i too am open to a fee if i could find something rent-stabilized

COMMENT: This is was so insightful, thank you! I’ve got about 3-4 months to secure something, 100% agree on starting early. Relocating to NY and it’s my first move ever, doing my best to stay persistent like you did. Congrats to you on the new place!

COMMENT: there's a ton of fb groups like gypsy housing on fb as well as others that are more gender based. you can find them if you search.

COMMENT: Thank you for the post! My budget is around $1400 including utilities, where would you recommend I go to look for apartments/roommates? I'm also not in NYC so I can't look at places in person. Thanks a lot!

COMMENT: 1 br, Brooklyn, by prospect park

COMMENT: A good trick i found for checking for scams has been a simple reverse image search to pull up any “real listings” of the apartment.

COMMENT: I saw and applied to this apartment too! I only spoke briefly with the landlord but I was so surprised she was accepting offers...

COMMENT: I had one weekend to find my place last year. I did a lot of what OP did AND hired a broker.  I ended up taking one I found myself and gave my broker a hefty tip because she drove me to all of her listings and reviewed the ones I found myself.  She also reviewed my lease and advised me through the whole process.  

When you do hear back from listings you reach out to make sure you ask them to send you their other listings!!! That's how I found my place!

COMMENT: soooooooo many short term rentals this time of year.  It felt so promising at first. I actually did pay the subscription for a few months and at least it was cheap lol!

COMMENT: I found mine post-FARE asking the broker that the building I was interested in hired if he had other places. The one I wanted to see had been taken before I could see it.

COMMENT: People are bidding on $2800 apts now? This is nuts.

COMMENT: https://rentguidelinesboard.cityofnewyork.us/resources/rent-stabilized-building-lists/ scroll all the way down to the links by borough

COMMENT: What is the website for the list of rent stabilized buildings? -

1. looking at the city's list of stabilized buildings - i did this because i wanted a stabilized unit. i went through buildings in each neighborhood that i liked to see if they were stabilized or not and then checked the building's violations, and if the building looked good, i contacted the broker that previously posted the units. this got me in contact with some helpful brokers.

COMMENT: well, seemed like other people found it valuable lol

COMMENT: you realize this has no value if you don’t reveal your budget/neighborhood… right?

COMMENT: i just left it as all apartments in my radius. the word filters weren't super effective imo.

COMMENT: Thanks for this! What key words or filters are you using on Craigslist?

COMMENT: It used to be a great resource back in the day, when it was more of a grassroots thing. I also have friends who found long-term places on there.

These days it’s a lot of Airbnb type situations (five days is not a sublet…just pay your rent!), renters who want someone to pay THEM for the pleasure of pet-sitting (should be the other way around…), and insanely overpriced sublets (that fifth floor walkup studio is not running you 7k/mo…) And they allow brokers now which also changes the dynamic. 

There are still some gems but it’s not what it used to be for sure.

COMMENT: I still live in my rent stabilized Listings Project apartment that I scored in May 2020. It started as a furnished sublet (original renters went upstate) and then I eventually took over their lease (and most of their furniture). This is probably super rare now!

COMMENT: Keep going! You will find a good place. Be encouraged :)

COMMENT: 4 years ago I listed my own place on listings project for a sublet for the remainder of my lease and got a not-overwhelming number of replies and I gave some tours but nobody from there took us up on it. Kinda seems like most people on there have a higher budget and therefore higher standards than what my old place met

COMMENT: Sunset Park!! And tysm!!

COMMENT: I’m dying over your apt! So cute! I have a similar but it’s so $$$ 😭 what neighborhood?

COMMENT: Good tips.  I’m starting to sour on Listings Project myself.

COMMENT: Is your place a 1 br? Borough? I'm looking to move in Nov 1st this year

COMMENT: What a great post-this is really helpful

COMMENT: So interesting bc I also found out apartment on Craigslist. Literally was just refreshing any time I could. They had listed it on StreetEasy as well but I believe posted on Craigslist first. Toured it the next day and signed that day. 

I like our neighborhood and our place is huge but thinking of moving next year. I’d love to live in a place with W/D in unit, esp because we are very active and go through clothes fast. And a bigger kitchen. Hoping to find something beautiful but man, moving in the city is tuff. Probably going Craigslist route again

COMMENT: it's so good but sucks you can't filter posts for "by owner" anymore

COMMENT: not for williamsburg. I only had one broker that showed me something that was really good and it was off market, but I think we just got lucky with the timing that we connected with him. being really persistent and following up with them is probably the best strategy if you're gonna go that route because that was the only way that we found out about the off market apartment (and fwiw we didn't end up getting it because the landlord decided to give it to somebody that she knew at the last minute)

COMMENT: Also found my apt in March through Craigslist! I honestly haven’t used it in forever (have used fb groups for roomies / lease takeover and streeteasy in the past). My coworker sent me a bunch of Craigslist listings in a different neighborhood (she knew them from a parents group) so I ended up checking after seeing terrible apartments back to back lol

It ended up being a lease break and it was slightly under market because she’s been there since covid 

She said she listed on fb marketplace also but was bombarded by messages so she went through the CL emails first

COMMENT: I’ve been telling people about Craigslist for years but they don’t listen!

COMMENT: any recs for brokers? none have shown me anything good

COMMENT: thank you! desperate for a 3 bed in williamsburg for june 1 and going to try this

COMMENT: This has been going on since at least 2021 sadly. My own unit that I left early that year ended up about $200+ above listing by the new tenant and it was literally a shoebox.

COMMENT: I used that to get a general picture and then went to the HPD link that they had there. I think it was useful for seeing what the portfolio of the LL was like and getting a general idea! but the Hpd Website was a lot more helpful for getting hard data especially on the 311 recent complaints and violations.

COMMENT: * [https://whoownswhat.justfix.org](https://whoownswhat.justfix.org/) 

I just checked this. I wouldn't trust it. Its not very accurate. It seems to be aggregating stuff from various sites, but its not actually useful for telling you info about landlord. For example, it correctly named the property manager employee I interact with, but didn't identify my landlord which is much larger. 

The rest of the statistics it picked up essentially was looking at all issues from 2007 to 2024 from HPD site, without actually checking who the landlord was at hte time etc. So it incorrectly attributes issues that didn't occur under my current landlord and apartment.

My apartment is a gem.

COMMENT: Did you pay a broker fee at the end for your new apartment?

COMMENT: Amazing tips and experience! I am actually a journalist with CNN working on a story about exactly this! Renters using 'alternative' methods to find their apartments in this crazy market. Let me know if you'd like to share your story! Feel free to contact me at [vanessa.yurkevich@cnn.com](mailto:vanessa.yurkevich@cnn.com) Thank you!

COMMENT: Thank you so much am looking to move out of the projects even if my salary is not enough for regular appartment I need to move up better in my life am walking by faith and believing god to take me out in this place and give me better

COMMENT: Sorry for the confusion. I found something on craigslist and ended up not needing a broker for it, although i was working with one who i was going to pay if i couldn't find something on my own. I ultimately realized I wasn't gonna go with her though because she was just showing me stuff that I was finding out straight easy but the benefit to paying her was that she was putting my application in for me and giving me insight on how to make it stronger compared to the other ones. whether or not that would have been an advantage in the end, I don't know because I ended up rescinding all of the applications that I had put in for apartments when I found out that I got the craigslist one.

COMMENT: This is helpful, but are you saying you ultimately did use a broker? How did that work when you found something on Craigslist? Did you find that on your own and then not need to pay the broker? Did the broker help you find that? Asking because it seems post-FARE the main issue is finding something without having to pay a broker fee

COMMENT: I think there are people you can pay to look at an apartment for you. So that's an option also.

COMMENT: Can I ask what neighborhood you ended up scoring in?

COMMENT: it's more common than you think. i didn't realize but when i was talking to my friends about this, a lot of them told me they had to do this.

COMMENT: Listings Project I think was originally geared towards artists so I think that demographic and the neighborhoods they used to live in is over represented. 

Sublets are still happening in other boroughs for sure. I see more posts on Facebook and student lists though.

COMMENT: I’ve never heard of bidding up rent?? That sounds insane! That’s a red flag to me, did your broker tell you to do that?

COMMENT: makes sense, thanks!

COMMENT: that’s smart, thanks!

COMMENT: for us, the man showing the apartment was just a guy who lives in the neighborhood and liked his building. we ended up trying to just form a relationship when we were there and ask a lot of questions and show how much we liked it. i think we got it only because we ended up talking to him for almost an hour where the other people who were coming were just in and out. asked him a lot about what kind of tenants he wanted and what we wanted in a space.

COMMENT: i did but i kept getting outbid or the apartment was really crappy. just not good luck this time around there but i found two others on there in the past.

COMMENT: not specifically, but if you look up prewar buildings you like on streeteasy, you can look at the past listings and contact those brokers. apparently a lot is word of mouth these days (according to one broker we worked with) because the landlords don't want to pay the broker fee.

COMMENT: haha thank you! i just struggled a lot so wanted to help anyone out whose looking.

COMMENT: Not a great and thoroughly helpful post but it’s obviously coming from a very admirable person! Kudos.

COMMENT: If you have anyone in the city who can look at places for you, do it. I signed my lease sight unseen (was searching from out of state) and only through video tour, which is risky. It ended up working out because I trusted the broker (this was pre FARE). If you feel like you keep your wits about you and have a very good sense of judgment, maybe try it, but it’s a reallll risk. If you do do video tours, just know what to ask for. Have them turn on every faucet for at least 60 seconds, open the cupboards, look at the baseboards, under the sinks, etc etc.

COMMENT: My experience on Craigslist was to reach out already providing all pertinent info (move in date, credit score, how many people, etc) and to ask when I can see the unit. If you’re already doing that and not getting responses it might just be that the market is that competitive :(

COMMENT: Found my rent stabilized 2 bed brownstone on Craigslist 2022 pre-FARE for $2300. I didn’t like the actual unit the broker had listed so I asked him if he had others, and he had several unlisted ones which is how I found mine. Paid a broker a fat $4200 (again, pre-FARE) but it was entirely worth it. I’ve lived here for four years and have no plans to leave. Craigslist is the way!!

COMMENT: Did you use StreetEasy at all? That’s where I’ve found all my apartments…

COMMENT: How does this advice change for folks who don’t live in New York? I think that’s where it gets crappy. I’ll only be in NYC for a limited amount of days in person to secure housing because of my schedule.

COMMENT: Do you have any advice for Craigslist specifically? I have reached out to several places that don't appear to be scams but I haven't heard anything back. I typically reach out via email. Across the other platforms (StreetEasy, FB Marketplace) I'm having similar issues.

I have a similar timeline, out June 1, and am starting to feel some pressure.

COMMENT: I listed my own room last week and I got over 40 replies.

COMMENT: oh sorry I forgot to answer the other question. We ended up with one that we originally toured on craigslist and the owner didn't get back to us for quite a while because he was just an individual owner, but we did end up getting it because we were persistent and consistently followed up with him about wanting that apartment as our first choice. We also we're honest about how much we liked it when we went to tour it.

COMMENT: This is so helpful, thank you! I’m also looking for a pre-war in crown heights - any broker recommendations?

COMMENT: we saw one on onderdonk posted around 2750 and people were making a lot of offers, I'm not sure what they were but my broker told us to offer 2900 and apparently we got outbid. I ended up pulling our offer out because I didn't feel ethical about bidding over the asking price.

COMMENT: yes it's way better. in this market You need to see it immediately.

COMMENT: I also scored on Craigslist

COMMENT: Hi! Were you paying for the premium versión of Rent Reboot?

COMMENT: I have gotten every apartment on Craigslist. You learned how to play the game and be strategic. Enjoy your new place!

COMMENT: This sub loves to recommend Listings Project, but I've had the same experience as you. So much of it is short sublets for a couple of weeks only, basically people who want someone to cover their rent while they go on vacation. They even have a "World Cup Rentals" section is basically Airbnb by another name.

For any long, legitimate sublets, or for actual rentals, it's impossible to get a reply. Which makes sense if people really are getting 120 emails for a single apartment.

It's also frustrating that like 70% of the listings are limited to a handful of neighborhoods in Brooklyn. I'm not sure if the other boroughs have migrated to another platform, or if Brooklyn is the only borough where people still sublet regularly.

COMMENT: Thank you so much for putting all of this information together.  I have saved your post and will refer to it the next time I have to move or someone asks me for tips!

COMMENT: What did you ultimately end up with?? Additionally, when you were bidding for the apartments, what kind of pricing were you seeing?

COMMENT: thank you for sharing your insight - super helpful

COMMENT: glad you made it through the chaos, craigslist actually coming in clutch is pretty wild these days

COMMENT: thank you so much this is so helpful.