Avoiding Rental Scams
Finding your new, off-campus home in New York City can be a rewarding, but
sometimes stressful experience. Below are some tips to remember as you’re searching
to help you avoid possible scam listings and remain safe.
Be Cautious of the following
A space offered well below market. If it’s too good to be true, it probably is. Be
mindful about moving quickly on a below market space, as it may not be what it
seems.
A landlord who requests that you wire money. Legitimate landlords will not ask
renters to wire money to any account, especially an account located abroad. They
also will not ask for money by Western Union, MoneyGram, or other money transfer
service.
A claim of affiliation with NYU. Scammers may attempt to impersonate this site to
make it seem like we participate in the lease transaction or transfer of funds. We do
not participate in any transactions between landlords and renters, and we will never
ask you for money to use our site or any of our services.
A sketchy landlord story. Perhaps the landlord says they must relocate and rent the
unit out in the next few days. They say you can walk by the building, but no one can
show it to you because everyone has already moved out. You may also need to
commit by the next day because dozens of people are waiting to sign the lease. A
legitimate landlord will meet you in person and allow you to tour the property before
asking for a deposit to secure the rental.
An inability to meet the landlord in person. The landlord/agent is unable or refuses
to meet you in person and show the property. They may even send you an access
code to unlock an electronic lockbox to gain entry by yourself to the space you are
looking to rent.
What You Can Do
Request and expect an exact street address and apartment number. You can cross
reference this later with Google and Google Maps Street View.
Do your own research. What type of building is it? Does it have an elevator? Look for
inconsistencies in the listing and/or information you were provided.
If looking for a space in a luxury building, contact the building first, as they may
rent directly to tenants.
Avoid all-cash deals. Ensure there is a way to document your lease and your
payments to your landlord or building.
Be wary of subletting scams. Ask for a copy of the tenant’s current lease and create
an agreement with them that includes dates, rent amount, etc.
Rent only spaces that you have seen in person. Sometimes you may need to rent a
space and have no way to visit it beforehand. See if a friend or colleague can visit
for you and walk you through on a video call.
Try to visit a new space with a friend or colleague. Touring with a buddy can be
helpful when interacting with brokers or landlords.
Remember you can cosign a lease with a family member as guarantor, or friend
instead of paying money to a third party if your income does not meet the landlord
or building requirements.
Report scams immediately
Include as much detail as possible, such as copies of the communications with the
scammer and money transfer details to:
offcampus@costar.com
NYU Campus Safety at 212.998.2222 or via the Safe NYU app
The Internet Crime Complaint Center (IC3) (https://www.ic3.gov/)
The Federal Trade Commission (https://reportfraud.ftc.gov/#/)
If you sent money by Western Union or MoneyGram, those vendors’ customer
service departments may be able to stop the transfer:
Western Union Complaint Procedure
(https://www.westernunion.com/us/en/legal/file-complaint.html)
MoneyGram Complaint Procedure
(https://www.moneygram.com/mgo/us/en/help/contact/)