Common Apartment Rental Terms
The most crucial component of apartment hunting in New York City is going into
the rental market prepared - knowing what your needs are in comparison to your
wants.
Manage your expectations. The newer the apartment, the appliances, the facilities and
conveniences - like proximity to a subway or even NYU, means a higher price. Elevators
and a doorman add to the price as well. Be open to the possibility of having to live in
Brooklyn, Queens or even New Jersey to get a better price and more space.
Know your wants from your must haves -- more than one bathroom or bedroom, quiet
neighborhood, closet space, safety of the neighborhood, building amenities; Basically,
go into your search knowing what you can live with and what you can't live without!
Terms to Know
The New York City housing market has unique terminology that is commonly used to
describe the buildings, apartment types, and amenities. Additionally, there are specific
terms referring to leasing and renting. We've provided further information to help you
familiarize yourself with commonly used language in the real estate market.
Types of Buildings
Doorman Elevator Building
Doorman buildings are typically more expensive, often offering a range of amenities
and a doorman and/or concierge is on duty 24 hours a day, monitoring the entrance
to the building and surrounding area.
Elevator Building
This type of building is often smaller than a building with a doorman. Entry into the
building may be accessed by voice or video intercom. This arrangement adds
security without the cost of providing a full-time doorman. Acceptance of deliveries
and packages when the tenant is not home is usually not provided in this type of
building.
Walk-Ups
Buildings under six stories are not required to provide elevator service. Walk-ups
can include different types of buildings. If you are looking at an apartment in a walk-
up, it's a good idea to visit the building at night and at different times of the day to
get an idea how safe the building appears and how safe you would feel living in it.
Also, consider the price differential between a 1st floor and say a 4th or 5th floor
apartment.
Apartment Types
Alcove Studio (ALC)
A studio apartment unit annexed with an additional and smaller alcove space, which
often forms an L shape. Screens or other partitions are optionally used for privacy,
creating a separate sleeping area/bedroom.
Brownstone/Townhouse (BSTN, WWNHSE, TH)
Four to five story high buildings that were built in the late 1800’s through the early
1900’s as single-family homes. Generally, apartments in these types of buildings
can have high ceilings, fireplaces, gardens or ‘garden views’ (if on a high floor and in
the back) and hardwood floors. Prices range from mid-priced to expensive,
depending on location, size and renovations. Virtually none have a doorman.
Classic 6, 7, or 8 (CLASSIC 6/7/8)
The term classic followed by a number refers to the number of rooms in an
apartment. For example, a ‘Classic 6' would be a two bedroom with a living room,
dining room, kitchen and maid's room. Bathrooms are not included when counting
the rooms of an apartment.
Condominium (CONDO)
A condominium apartment is real property. A buyer receives a deed to the property,
and owns the apartment outright. By law, there cannot be an underlying mortgage
on the property. A unit owner must pay a monthly common charge to cover the
costs of maintaining and running the building. Since a condo is real property, the
owner is responsible for paying real estate taxes. If the unit owner has a mortgage,
the bank collects 1/12 of the yearly real estate taxes every month and pays the city
directly out of an escrow account. If the owner pays all cash and has no mortgage,
the city will bill them twice a year.
Convertible/Flexible 1,2,3, or 4 Bedrooms
An apartment that is convertible or flexible in terms of the number of bedrooms it
can provide. For example, a convertible two bedroom is a one bedroom apartment
with enough space to partition off an area for the second bedroom. The terms
'convertible' and 'flex' are used interchangeably.
Cooperatives/Co-Op (COOP)
The resident/shareholder then has a proprietary lease for the apartment. It is
important to note that co-ops often have an underlying mortgage on the entire
building, meaning the tenant will have to pay a monthly share of the mortgage along
with the other costs associated with running the building. The amount of shares a
resident owns is determined by their apartment's size, floor, light, and views.
Share
An arrangement whereby one rents an apartment with one or more individuals who
already live in the apartment
Sublet
An arrangement whereby a legal tenant of an apartment rents part or all of the
apartment to someone else. They pay rent directly to the ‘over-tenant’ and have no
contact with the original landlord.
Studio
A studio apartment consists of a single room plus a bathroom. It functions as the
kitchen, living room and bedroom. The kitchen area or "kitchenette" may be divided
from the main living area, or simply be a counter and cabinets along one wall. The
bathroom will be the only separate room in a studio apartment.
Housing Features / Components
Alcove (ALC)
This is the bottom of the “L” in an L-shaped space. It’s a good place for your bed, or
you can use it as a sitting or dining area. It can be made private with a screen,
drape, or temporary wall.
Bars
Security Bars installed on windows to prevent brake-ins.
Bulkhead
A bulkhead is the room on the roof that some duplexes have as their second floor.
Conceirge
A caretaker of an apartment building or hotel; who lives on the premises, oversees
people leaving and entering the building, handles mail, and may even act as a janitor
or porter.
Keyed Elevator
Refers to an apartment that has an elevator that opens directly into it. One must use
a key to operate the elevator. This feature is found mostly in lofts and penthouses.
Loft Area
Apartments with high ceilings will sometimes have a 'loft area' built into them. A
‘loft area’ is a platform constructed over the living space for the purpose of extra
storage, a sleeping area, a home office, etc. Generally you can access the area with
a staircase or ladder. ‘Loft areas’ are very useful because they make use of
otherwise wasted vertical space.
Murphy Bed
A bed that is built into the wall or attached to the wall and pulled down when
needed. A popular piece in studios, Murphy Beds are a great space saver and come
in a variety of styles and price ranges.
Sleep Loft
A platform at least six feet above the floor, containing a bed. (See ‘Loft Areas’)
Triple Mint
Refers to the condition of the apartment. An apartment is 'Triple-Mint' if the
apartment, kitchen and bathrooms are all in mint condition.
Two-Fare Zone
A location that requires two means of transportation to get to Manhattan (ex: a bus
and a train).
Leasing and Renting
Assignment
A lease assignment conveys to another person all the tenant's rights to occupy the
apartment. A tenant may not assign his/her lease without the written consent of the
owner, which may be unconditionally withheld without cause. However, an owner
who unreasonably refuses to grant permission to assign the lease, must release the
tenant from the lease upon request of the tenant upon 30 days notice. If the owner
reasonably withholds consent, the lease may not be assigned and the tenant will
not be released from the lease.
Broker (BKR)
A state licensed sales agent who acts for property owners and prospective
purchasers in Real Estate transactions. Acts as a guide in searching for apartments
or homes for prospective renters/buyers.
Co-Broke
When brokers are working on a 'co-broke' basis, they are sharing exclusive listings
with each other. In a co-broke transaction, one broker will represent the buyer or
renter, while the other will represent the owner of the property. The commission is
usually split 50/50.
Fixture Fee/Fix Fee
A fee that the tenant pays for the appliances provided in a dwelling.
Guarantor (GUAR)
A guarantor is a person who assumes financial responsibility of a lease for a tenant
or tenants who otherwise would not meet the landlord’s financial qualifications. For
example, someone attending law school that might not have an income would use a
guarantor (often a family member) to satisfy the landlord that rent payment will not
be a problem. The guarantor is a 'backstop' for the tenants in the event of non-
payment. In Manhattan, guarantors generally need to make 80 times the monthly
rent in annual income to qualify.
Landlord (LL)
The person who owns the apartment, house, or building; and to whom the rent is
paid.
Lease
A lease is a legally binding, written agreement between a lessor (property owner)
and a lessee (one who holds property under a lease) that gives the tenant the legal
right to reside for a specifically stated length of time (beginning and ending dates)
in the property for a set rental rate. Leases in non-regulated apartments may be oral
or written, however it is recommended that you only enter into a written agreement.
For more detailed definitions of and for other terms, see below, as well as the
Glossary section of this website.
Market Rate or Non-Stabilized Building
With a market rate apartment, a landlord, at his own discretion, determines how
much monthly rent he will charge on any given apartment. Renewals are not
guaranteed unless stated in the lease. Introduced in 1993, "luxury destabilization" is
the newest form of a Non-Stabilized Lease. It provides for lease-end destabilization
of apartments, which rent for over $2,000.00 per month.
Month-to-Month Tenacy (Tenant-at-Will)
A month-to-month is also a legally binding agreement between a landlord and
tenant. A month-to-month agreement should be, but does not have to be, a written
agreement. Under this agreement the landlord or the tenant may terminate the
agreement for any reason as long as written notification is given 30 days or one
rental period in advance, whichever is longer. Notice of a raise in rent requires the
same advance notice.