Living with Roommates
Living with a roommate can be one of the most rewarding experiences of your college
career. Whether you find a new hobby, learn a new skill, or become good friends, living
with a roommate can be fun! However, living with someone also has its challenges. As
you prepare for your search for a roommate, consider some of the advice we have
provided below.
Advice on Living with Others
Please keep in mind that everyone has different beliefs, values, experiences,
communication styles, and expectations. With that being said, you and your roommate
may become the best of friends, or you may only see each other when you’re in your
room. No matter how close you are, you have to work together to establish and
maintain a positive living environment. Having the right attitude can make living with a
roommate a little easier for everyone living in the room.
As soon as you get settled into your room, you should discuss your expectations
honestly. The biggest conflicts often arise when expectations are not addressed from
the beginning. Don’t put off talking to each other about how you want to live, needs,
quirks, and pet peeves. It's a great way to help manage conflict in the future.
Speaking openly about what you expect from each other and your personal habits is a
vital step that many people skip especially if living with a friend or someone you
already know. It's pretty common for roommates to think that if they get along well as
friends, they will get along as roommates, however, often living with friends and not
discussing the things that might bother one another, can cause tension.
Living off campus, means you are pretty much on your own to work out problems with
your roommate -- unlike the residence hall where you might have an RA to help you
resolve and mediate problems. Just like any relationship, it's always a work in progress.
But talking to one another, being honest about feelings, and developing a relationship
that involves sharing, compromise, and respect will insure that you have a great living
situation.