New York City Legal Assistance
NYU does not provide legal services for students, however, there are a number of
resources within New York City that can help you find an attorney and/or provide you
with limited legal advice. The following are provided as a resource only. NYU has no
affiliation or recommendation for any of the listed services.
Avvo (https://www.avvo.com/free-legal-advice)
The world's largest free legal directory with over 167,000 New York Lawyers profiled
on their site (more than any other directory).
LawHelp.org (http://www.lawhelp.org/)
Provides low and moderate income people find free legal aid programs in their
communities, and answers to questions about their legal rights. The website
provides links to resources and legal aid by topic.
Legal Aid Society (https://legalaidnyc.org/get-help/)
The Legal Aid Society handles approximately 275,000 client cases each year with a
legal staff of more than 800 lawyers and a para-professional and support staff of
approximately 600 through a network of neighborhood and court-based offices in
25 locations throughout the five boroughs of New York City. The Civil Practice also
operates hotlines to provide additional services to low-income New Yorkers.
The Association of the Bar of the City of New York (http://www.nycbar.org/)
Provides legal referral services and self help legal clinics.
Lambda Legal HelpDesk (http://www.lambdalegal.org/help/)
Aid for individuals seeking legal information and assistance with discrimination
related to sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, and HIV status.
"311" New York City (https://portal.311.nyc.gov/)
311 is New York City's phone number for government information and non-
emergency services. Whether you're a resident, business owner, or a visitor, all the
resources of New York City are just a phone call away. Immediate access to
translation services in over 170 languages is available, 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week.. Phone: In any borough of New York City call 311 or Outside of New York
City call (212) NEW-YORK (212.639.9675).